|product| is a comprehensive digital workplace platform designed to
empower organisations with digital sovereignty through a *secure*,
*scalable*, and *fully managed* on-premises solution. It provides a
rich suite of collaborative tools, seamlessly combining
enterprise-grade email, contacts, and calendars with modern
collaboration features such as real-time chat, video meetings, and
document editing, representing a reliable solution for enterprise
business communication.

Built on an open-core architecture, |product| offers complete control
over data and infrastructure, enhanced security, and smooth
integration with existing systems. Its enterprise-ready features,
including *robust backup*, *archiving*, *legal-hold* capabilities, and tools
for *regulatory compliance*, ensure effective data management and
sovereignty.

By leveraging the dynamic |product| Mesh technology, administrators can
easily adapt the platform to meet both user and organisational needs,
while also enabling horizontal and vertical scaling to accommodate
growing resource demands. High availability and disaster recovery are
ensured through full redundancy and active replication, complemented
by robust security features including SAML and two-factor
authentication (2FA).

|product|'s user-friendly interface and comprehensive administration
dashboard simplify management and facilitate deployment in both public
cloud and private data center environments.
