
The Mails module is where you store, create, and arrange new e-mails.

Folders and shares
------------------

E-mail are arranged in folders, which by default are **Inbox**,
**Junk**, **Sent**, **Drafts**, and **Trash**. New folders can be
created by right-clicking on any item in the folder list and placed in
a hierarchy. 

.. note:: Initially, there's no folder hierarchy, because all the
   default folders are at the same level.

Whenever a folder contains unread e-mails, a blue icon with the number
will be displayed on the right of the folder name, with **99+**
meaning there are at least 99 emails to read.

A right-click also allows to carry out other actions on the selected
folder: *move*, *wipe*, *edit*, *delete*, and *share*.

.. hint:: An e-mail can be placed in exactly one folder.
          
To find shares, click on the :bdg-primary-line:`FIND SHARES`
underneath the `Share Folders`. In the dialog, enter the e-mail
address of the colleague of which you want to find the shares. If the
colleague has shared some folder, you'll be presented with a list.


.. are tags present in Carbonio?!
   Tags
   ----

   A :term:`tag` can be assigned to an e-mail

Working with e-mails
--------------------

By default, e-mails are placed in the **Inbox** folder upon arrival
(unless they are marked as *junk email*) and in the **Sent** folder
when sent. These landing folders can be changed via the :ref:`Mails
settings <settings-mails>` page, by setting up **filters** and move
automatically any email to a given folder.

E-mails are arranged in *Conversations*, meaning that an e-mail with
all the replies it receives is packed in one single element in the
list. Messages and conversations can be drag-and-dropped to any
folder.

.. hint:: Moving a single e-mail in a conversation is not possible,
   the whole conversation will be moved.

A right click on the e-mail allows to carry out a number of actions:
marking it as read/unread or as spam, print, delete or flag it. A flag
is a simple indicator for an email that can be adapted to one's
preference: to name a few, it has some importance compared to other,
it needs some action, or it has been processed and can be archived or
deleted.

Trash Folder
------------

The trash folder is a special folder in which e-mails marked for
deletion are temporary stored, in case they need to be recovered.

An e-mail in the Trash folder will be automatically deleted after a
period equivalent to the retention time, by default **30 days**.

Junk Folder
-----------

Like the *trash folder*, this is a special folder in which e-mails
that are wither marked as **spam**, or otherwise are unsolicited or
undesired, are stored.

|product| ships with anti-virus and anti-spam engines that are able to
automatically infer whether an e-mail is legit or not and mark it as
spam. However, in case you think an e-mail is spam but was not
processed, it can be manually marked as spam by right-clicking it and
selecting *Mark as spam*.

All the content of the junk folder helps the anti-spam engine to learn
and improve its results.

.. topic:: Massive e-mail sending

   A *massive e-mail sending* is the process of sending legitimate
   e-mails to a large number of e-mail addresses, often used for
   marketing purposes and using a specific software or online service
   for this purpose.

   |product| users may be allowed to send an e-mail to all or to most
   of their colleagues (*internal users*) in special circumstances
   (e.g., company-wide announcements), but they should never send
   massive e-mails to external e-mail addresses, because the risk is
   that the company's e-mail server enter a **blacklist** and all the
   e-mails it delivers are marked as spam,making communication with
   external companies (like suppliers and customers) very difficult.
