.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

The calendar component allows to keep track of the appointments, meetings,
and events you need to attend to and share them with your colleagues.

Beside using |new|, a new appointment can be created in other
ways. The first one is with a click of the mouse on the desired date
and time on the calendar. The only difference is in the start (and
end) date and time: by using the button, they are set to the current
date and time, by clicking the calendar they are taken from the
clicked date and time.

Alternatively, you can open an existing appointment, clone it, and
edit only the relevant details, like for example date and time,
without the necessity to create a new one and fill in all the
details. This option is useful if you have to schedule recurrent
events without a fixed schedule.

Attendees, whose presence is either mandatory or optional, can be
added by writing their e-mail address. If the attendee already is not
available or has some overlapping appointment, its e-mail address will
be coloured and a message will be shown. This improves and makes
easier the creation of events.

In case the invitation was not sent or if something went wrong, the
event will show up in the calendar, but marked with a red icon. The
attendee can propose a new time. In this case, new e-mail will be
generated and sent to the other participant to inform them of the
change.

When right-clicking an event in the calendar, different actions can be
carried out: open it and show all participants and details, edit, copy
or move it, and its original, plain text version, can be shown.

Additionally, :ref:`mail-tags` can be added to any calendar event and
the event itself can be (tentatively) accepted or declined


Searching for events is easy: insert a search string in the
:ref:`quick search bar <create-new>` to retrieve a first batch of
results. By default, all matches in the past and future 30 days are
shown. To broaden or restrict the search, click the
:bdg-primary:`ADVANCED FILTER` bar and select the new start and end
dates using the date pickers. Optionally, also add more keywords to
search.


Shared Calendars
----------------

You can also search for calendars shared by your colleagues: click
*Shared Calendars* in the left-hand side columns, then the
:bdg-primary-line:`FIND SHARES` button. In the dialog that opens,
enter the (partial) name of the colleague, then assign a colour, and
finally click :bdg-primary:`ADD`.

The calendar will appear in the list of calendars, and all the
appointments are shown; toggle their visibility clicking the
:octicon:`tasklist;1em;sd-text-primary` checkbox.

