.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

|team| is a component that provides corporate instant messaging
features like text chats, 1-to-1 video calls, and videoconferencing.

The UI of |team| is organised in three columns:

* The left-hand side column holds the list of contacts with the
  history of the passed chats. Above it, you can |create| new chats
  and Groups, filter existing chat names and on the top, select
  between Chats and Virtual Rooms (see further on for more). Below it,
  buttons allow to manage virtual rooms.

* The central column holds the chat messages. Above the chat's
  top-right corner, click the phone icon to start a video call with
  the contact.

* The right-hand side column holds information about the contact and
  allows to copy the link to the contact's virtual room (which is
  unique), mute notifications, and clear the chat's history

.. _chats_moderators_in_rooms:

Moderators in Rooms
-------------------

The user that creates a **room** (we call *virtual room* a Group or a
Virtual Room, see below) becomes automatically the **Room Moderator**
and can manage the roomâ€™s textual and video conversations. In
particular, the *Mute For All* and *Add new members* functionalities
are reserved for Moderators only.

A moderator can promote any user as moderator and can leave the
virtual room only if either no other users are present in the room or
another moderator is present in the room.

Groups
------

Groups are non-persistent entities used to communicate with multiple
people at the same time (by default up to 5 in total).  Any user can
create a group inviting people, and any group member can invite more
people in the same way. When all users leave a group, the group itself
ceases to exist.


Virtual Rooms
-------------

Virtual Rooms allow to set up video calls with multiple participants,
including **Internal Guests** and **External Guests**. The former are
users with an account on the current |product| instance, while the
latter are users that have no local account (i.e., on the |product|
instance). Both can join on a temporary basis without the need of
being members of the Virtual Room.

Moreover, in the Virtual Room tab, users can see at a glance all
ongoing and planned meetings involving them.

To create a new meeting, click the :bdg-primary-line:`CREATE ROOM`
button, then enter a name. You will be automatically assigned the role
of **Owner**. Besides being a :ref:`Moderator
<chats_moderators_in_rooms>`, an owner can not be removed and is the
solely person that can delete a Virtual Room.

In the left-hand side column, all meetings are shown, divided into
**Ongoing Meetings** and **Scheduled meetings**. For each of them, a
few buttons are shown, to join or delete a virtual room, to copy and
share the virtual room's link and to change the link.

.. note:: When a link is changed, the old one is wiped and can not be
   used anymore.

Planned Meetings prove useful when scheduling meetings with
colleagues: create a planned meeting, then attach the virtual room's
link to the calendar's invitation.

Video calls can be recorded, but require an additional package. Please
refer to section :ref:`vs-record-meeting` for directions and more
information on the functionality.

When joining a Virtual Room, a dialog window appears, which carries
the name of the room and allows to choose and test the audio and video
devices.

Sharing documents
-----------------

Within a textual chat, it is possible to share files by either
uploading a file from the local workstation or mobile device or by
providing the *public link* to a file stored in |file|. To carry out the latter
action, click on the *paper clip* icon on the right-hand side of the
chat's input box.

Moreover, most files can be previewed before being downloaded, see
Section :ref:`file-preview` for more information.


.. _team_presence:

Presence
--------

Presence is managed automatically in |team|: whenever a user logs in,
regardless of whether Chats has the focus, they appear as **online**.

As part of the user presence system, all messages are displayed with a
variable number of check symbols:

.. card::

   .. image:: /img/chats/chats-message-read.png

   - 0 grey checks: message not yet delivered to the server

   - 1 grey check: message delivered to the server

   - 2 grey checks: message delivered to the recipient user
     :octicon:`dash` to all users in case of chats with multiple
     members or Virtual Rooms

   - 2 blue checks: message viewed by the recipient user
     :octicon:`dash` to all users in case of chats with multiple
     members or Virtual Rooms 

When sending a text message, if privacy is enabled, then only one *gray*
check is shown, meaning that the server has received the message. No
acknowledgement will be sent back by the receiving user.

.. _team_unread_messages:

Unread Messages
---------------

The number of unread messages in any conversation (Group and instant
meeting) appears on the right side of both the *Chats* and *Instant
Meetings* label from where the message originated, and in the list of
conversions underneath, next to the actual chat generating the
message.
