.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

Zextras Suite 3.1.10
====================

Release Date: April 19th, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-189

* *Title:* Login page Zimbra parameters

* *Description:* Login page now support standard Zimbra parameters


.. note:: Known issue: To use both domain and customerDomain you have
   to specify the parameter twice. Eg:
   `https://infra-576dd838.testarea.zextras.com/zx/login/page/?domain=example.com&customerDomain=example.com`

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-201

* *Title:* Login page issue on changing color palette fixed

* *Description:* Fixed an issue that made the Login button disappear on changing color palette in the login page.

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-209

* *Title:* Auth zimlet minor graphical refactoring

* *Description:* Some useless labels have been removed from the Auth zimlet



.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-422

* *Title:* External restore operation now considers already existent folders

* *Description:* During an external restore operation, if a folder with the same path and name is already present in the account, it will be used instead of creating a new one with the same name.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-485

* *Title:* External restore operation now considers already existent mount points

* *Description:* During an external restore operation, if a mount point with the same path has already been created by a filter in the account, it will be used instead of creating a new one.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-491

* *Title:* Backup on S3 storage class improvement

* *Description:* Items' storage classes in the S3 store reflect the current storage class settings for the backup.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-515

* *Title:* Purge operation during backup migration fixed

* *Description:* During a backup migration operation, if a purge operation occurs it will be queued and will wait for the first operation to finish. The same happens if a purge operation is running and a migration operation attempts to start. This avoids the migration operation from failing.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-517

* *Title:* Account scan information improved

* *Description:* Now account id and mailbox id are reported in account scan notifications

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-524

* *Title:* Backup migration to third party store improved

* *Description:* Now the backup migration to a third party store also copies the metadata, the server's configuration and the map files.

The progress will display the number of archives, server configurations and maps uploaded.
If the server's logs are set to debug level, a line for every file uploaded will be reported.
The final notification will not propose to run a smart scan with deep and remote_metadata_upload flags anymore.



.. rubric:: General

* *Issue ID:* COR-489

* *Title:* Notifications: date column sortable

* *Description:* Date column must be sortable and must show the full time field


..

* *Issue ID:* COR-492

* *Title:* Detail panel disappear on notification list

* *Description:* There's no scroll bar, and scrolling on the last element of the list makes the detail panel disappear

..

* *Issue ID:* COR-508

* *Title:* Auth deploy from Core

* *Description:* Auth Zimlet cannot be deployed from the Core panel

..

* *Issue ID:* COR-598

* *Title:* Added a new command to dump configuration

* *Description:* It is now possible to dump configuration attributes, both inherited or not


.. rubric:: Drive

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-385

* *Title:* Content-Type header in Drive responses fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the Content-Type header to be inserted in requests. This caused Docs' documents not to be showed in some browsers if "X-Content-Type-Options nosniff" header was set.

..

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1031

* *Title:* Fixed logo size issue with Drive email notifications in Outlook

* *Description:* Creating, modifying or revoking Drive shares generates a mail notification that contains the Drive logo. The image size has been fixed to be shown correctly also in Outlook.

..

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1146

* *Title:* Drive database queries speed up improvements

* *Description:* The Drive database and queries have been optimized to speed up the opening of files.

The current version has been added to the node table to avoid calculating the maximum version of each node during the fetch of the related node and revision information.
The database has been updated to version 10.



.. rubric:: Mobile

* *Issue ID:* MOB-38

* *Title:* Activate ABQ by global/cos/account

* *Description:* the ABQ can be set at COS and account level too.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-305

* *Title:* All weekdays recurrence in appointments synchronization fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented appointments recurring all the weekdays to be properly synchronized.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-307

* *Title:* EAS  Organizer of shared calendar

* *Description:* Creating appointments on someone else's calendar via EAS causes the appointment to be wrongly seen as an invite accepted as tentative by the calendar's owner.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-340

* *Title:* EAS Contacts' birthday synchronization

* *Description:* This covers a bug where ZxMobile will shift birthday time according to the server's timezone, so birthdays will be showed a day before the correct data for GMT+x timezone



.. rubric:: Subscription Management

* *Issue ID:* SM-7

* *Title:* Empty license warning notification

* *Description:* When the number of created users exceeds the number of licensed a warning was sent without the necessary information



.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-1837

* *Title:* Team desktop notification fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevent zimbra tab to open when clicking on team desktop notification (chrome only)

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2472

* *Title:* Leave group as last participant fix

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that show and endless load page with Team logo when leaving a group type conversation as last partecipant

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2483

* *Title:* Clear history button added

* *Description:* Added clear history button in one to one conversations, groups, spaces.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2500

* *Title:* "who is writing" notifications

* *Description:* This fixes a bug where the "...is writing" message was shown even when the chat user had finished writing

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2517

* *Title:* Video Server issue related to IPv6 fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the Video Server service to properly bind on the 8188 port if the IPv6 interface is disabled

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2524

* *Title:* Added a new config attribute for user presence

* *Description:* Now, sysadmins can set a config attribute to allow or block the sending or receiving information of user presence ("online"/"offline" status, "is writing" status and "is writing" )

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2526

* *Title:* Added a new config attribute for message reads(ACKs)

* *Description:* Now, sysadmins can set a config attribute to allow or block receiving information of message reads

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2573

* *Title:* Start/end meeting date

* *Description:* A timestamp has been added to team meeting service notifications.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2574

* *Title:* Free signal on meetings

* *Description:* Added a Free signal while user is waiting other participants to join on meetings

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2630

* *Title:* Fixed a bug that mutes the client when the video will be disabled by user

* *Description:* Fixed a problem that mutes the audio while user disable the video

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2726

* *Title:* Team connection bug fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused Team connection to be dropped on downloading all the attachments from an email.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2743

* *Title:* Instant meeting bug fixed

* *Description:* Fixed rendering bug that prevented the instant meetings to start correctly.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2767

* *Title:* Team conversations rendering fix

* *Description:* Fixed rendering bug that prevent to see others participants names inside conversation title


