.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

.. uncomment for next release (3.12.0)
   
   Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.11.0
   =======================================

      Release Date: May 23rd, 2022

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-318

* *Title:* SAML wrong reports in the logs fixed

* *Description:* On login with SAML now the account status is reported
  in audit.log. Before the fix, `Authenticated successful` was
  reported for each zimbraAccountStatus.

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-370

* *Title:* Logout after temporary link fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that threw a 500 HTTP error when
  performing a logout after opening the webmail with a temporarily
  link.

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-382

* *Title:* Auth DB cleaner operation improvement

* *Description:* Auth DB cleaner operation no more set the mailboxes
  in maintenance mode on running. This permits concurrent operations
  on the mailboxes during the cleanup operation.  It is also now
  possible to modify the scheduled time of the operation from the
  server's configuration command.

.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-569

* *Title:* doItemSearch command fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the doItemSearch command
  to work properly. Now the command returns the results according to
  the given filters.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-580

* *Title:* External restore operation quota override

* *Description:* To make the external restore operation more reliable
  and avoid errors, now the mailboxes quota is removed during the
  restore operation. The quota is set back once the operation
  completes successfully.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-651

* *Title:* Accounts folder on migrating to external backup fixed

* *Description:* A bug that caused the metadata of the accounts to be
  wrongly uploaded to the bucket's root folder. Now the metadata files
  are properly uploaded to the `accounts` folder.

.. rubric:: General

* *Issue ID:* COR-680

* *Title:* Right-click on contact and calendar folders fixed for IE11

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the right-click from
  working properly on contacts and calendars folders using Internet
  Explorer 11 when com_zextras_client zimlet is enabled.

.. rubric:: Mobile

* *Issue ID:* MOB-360

* *Title:* ABQ disabled at startup

* *Description:* A new `abq_enabled_at_startup` attribute has been
  added to the configuration to avoid the ABQ feature being loaded at
  server startup if not used to save the server's resources.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-362

* *Title:* ABQ set command fixed

* *Description:* ABQ API has been reworked to fix a bug that prevented
  the `set` command from working with devices not already present in
  the list.

.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-329

* *Title:* Splitted volumes and buckets creation

* *Description:* To make the new volume creation experience simpler
  for the admins, bucket creation has been split by the volume
  creation commands. Admins can now create a new bucket and then pass
  its UUID to the volume creation command.

..

* *Issue ID:* PS-423

* *Title:* Mailbox move skips non-local accounts

* *Description:* As requested by our customers, now the
  `doMailboxMove` operation skips non-local accounts to avoid issues
  caused by running the command on the wrong server.

.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3656

* *Title:* Add tooltip on disabled create button on groups and spaces creation modals

* *Description:* In order to let user knows why the create buttons is
  disabled on the creation modal, it's been added a tooltip that tells
  that something is missing or something has to be fixed.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3720

* *Title:* Minichat are not opening on Suite

* *Description:* if user manually opens the minichat, it works, but if
  the setting is set to automatically open the minichat for each
  message, it’s not working automatically

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3722

* *Title:* Red dot of camera is kept after meetings on internal mode

* *Description:* Using internal mode, the resources are kept after the
  user close the call. The result is that the tab keep the red-dot on
  the browser’s tab

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3727

* *Title:* Move room fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused a room to disappear when
  moved between the servers.
