.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

.. uncomment for next release (3.15.0)

   Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.14.0
   ========================================

      Release Date: Oct 31st, 2022

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-312

* *Title:* Support for SAML POST logout added

* *Description:* Now the Zextras Suite authentication can handle
  logouts via POST requests on SAML authentication.

..


* *Issue ID:* AUTH-422

* *Title:* Wrong error messages on login fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused wrong error messages to be
  shown on login for unexistent users or submitting wrong passwords.

..


* *Issue ID:* AUTH-439

* *Title:* Ldap password Expiration causing all the Service
  Credentials expire fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused all the service (imap, smtp,
  pop3 etc.) credentials to expire on LDAP password expiration.

..

.. rubric:: Mobile

* *Issue ID:* MOB-366

* *Title:* Attendees update on appointment cancellation fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the attendees to receive
  an update when removing them from an appointment so the appointment
  was still shown in their calendar.

..


* *Issue ID:* MOB-389

* *Title:* Recurring events exceptions synchronization fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that made the exceptions to recurring
  events not being synchronized with mobile devices via EAS.

..


* *Issue ID:* MOB-390

* *Title:* Outlook app loop fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused the Outlook app
  synchronization to start looping when using the remote search.

..


* *Issue ID:* MOB-392

* *Title:* Accepting a single instance of an appointment fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused a single instance of an
  appointment to be moved to the original time in the organizer's
  calendar when the attendee accepts the invitation.

..

.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-446

* *Title:* doMoveBlobs ignores accounts deleted during the operation

* *Description:* The `doMoveBlobs` operation now ignores accounts
  deleted after the operation starts.

..

.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3891

* *Title:* Audio quality of 2.12 is worst than 2.11

* *Description:* We found that echo cancellation feature isn’t working
  anymore due to a problem with the keys we used to save the
  availability of echo cancellation on suite. We have restore it.

..


* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3928

* *Title:* Instant meeting blank screen fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused a blank screen to be shown on
  entering in an instant meeting.

..

