.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0



Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.16.0
========================================

   Release Date: Mar 13th, 2023

.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-679

* *Title:* Undelete operation bug fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused the `doUndelete` operation to fail the restoration of some items and stop in some corner case scenarios.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-681

* *Title:* Smart scan operation fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused items to be skipped when interrupting a Smart Scan operation.

.. rubric::  General


* *Issue ID:* COR-844

* *Title:* Modules icons clickable

* *Description:* In the admin console, now the modules icons are clickable in both multinode and single servers.

.. rubric::  Drive

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1140

* *Title:* Files with Cyrillic characters are correctly decoded when downloaded.

* *Description:* Files which have Cyrillic characters should be correctly decoded when downloaded from a public link.

.. rubric:: Mobile


* *Issue ID:* MOB-393

* *Title:* StartTime change on accepting an appointment fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused the `StartTime` value of an accepted appointment to change to the current date/time when synchronizing via EAS 14.1.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-397

* *Title:* StartTime change on accepting an appointment fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused the `StartTime` value of an accepted appointment to change to the current date/time when synchronizing via EAS 14.0 and lower.

..

* *Issue ID:* MOB-398

* *Title:* Attachment's name encoding via EAS fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused the attachment's names with non-ASCII characters to be wrongly encoded when synchronizing via EAS.

.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-4009

* *Title:* Meeting access page for external users Italian translation fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented the Italian translation of the instant meeting access page to be properly shown to external users.
