.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

=========================================
 Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.2.0
=========================================

Release Date: 14th June, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-237

* *Title:* Importing SAML configuration from the ISP

* *Description:* It is now possible to import SAML configuration directly from the ISP's configuration page.


..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-251

* *Title:* Improve the EAS code visualization

* *Description:* Now EAS code is showing properly with the font to PT Mono, generates the code without any issue (lower L), 1 (one), I (upper i) , O (upper o) and 0 (zero),

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-254

* *Title:* 2FA enforcement for users

* *Description:* It is now possible for a user to enforce the two factor authentication for his account.

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-257

* *Title:* enforce2FA CLI on wrong host

* *Description:* The enforce2FA CLI  command works if the target account has been created in any server, it works on all mailbox servers.

  .. note:: ``custom:zx`` must be enabled on domain level.

..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-276

* *Title:* Pass a customer Domain as query in URL

* *Description:* If the customer domain is specified in the URL the login should work by entering the username without the domain.


.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-559

* *Title:* removal of  temp folder /mountpoint-restore

* *Description:* Temporary mountpoint removed after restoration of zxbackup.


.. rubric:: Mobile

* *Issue ID:* MOB-348

* *Title:* All-day events scheduled one day before fix

* *Description:* A bug that caused the all-day events to be wrongly scheduled one day before the chosen date has been fixed.


.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-326

* *Title:* doMailboxMove required parameters

* *Description:* If any missing parameter, an unknown error is thrown:


.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2238

* *Title:* Forward action has been fixed

* *Description:* Now, users can forward text messages or files, stored on any server, to any single or group conversations.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2241

* *Title:* Internal user can join instant meeting from URl

* *Description:* Internal user can join an external meeting

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2575

* *Title:* Groups moderators added

* *Description:* Now, users can also be moderators of groups

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2796

* *Title:* Auto swap main stream when a user is talking

* *Description:* The main tile in cinema mode changes automatically based on the person who is speaking

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2806

* *Title:* Calendar's attachments download broke Team's websocket connection

* *Description:* Calendar's attachments download broke WebSocket
  connection of Team.  Fixed an issue that would cause the drop of
  Team's WebSocket connection while calendar attachments are
  downloaded.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2826

* *Title:* Limit signal sound to 10 seconds

* *Description:* Limit the free signal to 10 seconds on meetings

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2827

* *Title:* Return to the previous meeting setup view when a screen stream ends

* *Description:* User returns to the previous meeting view mode when a share screen ends or to another screen share

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2846

* *Title:* Show talking users on carousel

* *Description:* On cinema mode, talking users that aren't in carousel change position to be shown.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2856

* *Title:* Zextras logo at the end of instant meetings

* *Description:* "Powered by Zextras" on instant meeting pages that will be seen by external users has been added

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2871

* *Title:* Join's and switch inside meeting's tab sound

* *Description:* User A starts a meeting, changes the tab, user B joins the meeting, User A goes back to meeting view and the Meetingin sound is played wrongly.

