.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.3.0
=======================================

Release Date: July 12th, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-242

* *Title:* SAML session invalidation on logout

* *Description:* If provided within the SAML configuration, the logout process now calls the SAML logout endpoint to invalidate the session.


..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-268

* *Title:* Fixed warn notification in the audit log file

* *Description:* Added the missing space in the authentication error notification in the audit.log file when a non-existent user logged in to the webmail from the Zextras Suite login page.


..

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-289

* *Title:* unable to save the trusted device

* *Description:* Before this fix, if  two or more users log in using the same browser, there was an error saving the browser ID


.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-575

* *Title:* Handle not initialized backup on external restore.

* *Description:* Running an external restore without initializing the backup in the destination server now no longer generates errors.

.. commented out in the original
   * *Issue ID:* BCK-590

   * *Title:* Add an account restored Completed INFO to doExternalRestore logs

   * *Description:* The account restoration logs now appear in phases and completion logs at the end.



* *Issue ID:* BCK-595

* *Title:* `Skip_domain_provisioning` on doExternalRestore operation

* *Description:* By default, the `skip_domain_provisioning` flag now set to `false` skips all the domain-based attributes on `doExternalRestore` operation. If users set `skip_domain_provisioning` to `true` and the account's domain is not present, the import fails.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-597

* *Title:* External restore operation now restores shared contacts

* *Description:* Improved the external restore and the fixShares operations so they can restore shared contacts in groups too.

.. rubric:: General

* *Issue ID:* COR-604

* *Title:* New config commands

* *Description:* With new configuration commands, users can now use `set`, `get`, and `unset` commands.


.. rubric:: Admin

* *Issue ID:* DELEG-38

* *Title:* Now in Browse Logs window of Admin tab links to the new wiki

* *Description:* Updated Admin section "Browse Logs" link from the old wiki to the latest documentation page.


.. rubric:: Mobile

* *Issue ID:* MOB-343

* *Title:* Users can now define the folders to exclude from Active Sync

* *Description:* Users can now exclude a folder, except any of the system folders, from Active Sync.

.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-318

* *Title:* Indexing delayed on endpoints unavailability

* *Description:* When the indexing endpoints are unavailable, the indexing is delayed, and the failure count is updated.

..

* *Issue ID:* PS-320

* *Title:* Notify the admin if the indexing extraction tool's endpoint is  unavailable

* *Description:* A notification now informs the admins when none of the indexing extraction's endpoints is unavailable.


.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2559

* *Title:* Improved video server command's help output

* *Description:* When users run the video server command without parameters, a list of options with descriptions appears as output instead of an error.

.. commented out in the original
   * *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2690

   * *Title:* Margin at the end of a conversation removed

   * *Description:* In Zextras Teams, each conversation had an area at the end of the chat that users could scroll further. The margin at the end of a conversation no longer appears.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2842

* *Title:* Conversation scroll on new messages fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that prevented conversations from scrolling on receiving new messages while the ``is writing`` bubble is present.

..


* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2850

* *Title:* A notification now informs the users when someone mutes them.

* *Description:* Users now receive a notification when someone mutes them. This notification remains as an alert until users acknowledge it.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2889

* *Title:* Limited "add member" functionality to groups only to moderators.

* *Description:* With API version 14, the "add member" functionality is limited to groups and restricted only to moderators.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2931

* *Title:* "MuteForAll" button has been limited only to moderators

* *Description:* Only moderators can now mute other people in a group, space, or channel meeting.
