.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.5.0
=======================================

Release Date: September 6th, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-291

* *Title:* Improve logs for failed OTP attempt

* *Description:* The audit logs now display the account name for failed OTP attempts.

.. rubric:: General

* *Issue ID:* COR-595

* *Title:* Text selection now possible in admin panels

* *Description:* In Zextras suite (not Zimbra Network Edition or Zimbra Suite Plus) users can now select and copy text in admin panel's web interface.

..

* *Issue ID:* COR-628

* *Title:* `getNotification` command -- support for `json`

* *Description:* For enhanced monitoring and increased automation, `getNotification` command now supports `json` format output.

.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-338

* *Title:* Improved store purge operation

* *Description:* Zimbra mail and drive items are now properly purged in case of centralized volumes.

.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2816

* *Title:* Enhanced input textbox for creating one to one chats

* *Description:* When users searched for a contact to add in the one to one chat textbox, they couldn't see the text they typed; this issue is now fixed.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2966

* *Title:* Changed "Mute for All" to "Mute"

* *Description:* Changed the meeting action from "Mute for All" to "Mute"

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2971

* *Title:* Fixed appearance of bubble notifications of conversations in Safari

* *Description:* Notifications appeared truncated for Safari users. This issue is now fixed and text in notifications appear correctly.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2981

* *Title:* Fixed the string video-server as it appeared on the command's description.

* *Description:* Fixed an inconsistency in `video-server`'s command description which appeared When users checked help for "zxsuite team video-server add" or "zxsuite team video-server remove", the description carried different spellings for "video-server".

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2982

* *Title:* Fixed minichat trigger on receiving a system message.

* *Description:* Minichats no longer open for following system
  messages:
  
  - Meeting started
  - Meeting ended
  - Someone joins the conversation
  - Someone leaves the conversation
  - Someone has changed the topic, title, or avatar of conversation

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2983

* *Title:* Mini chats no longer available after user removal

* *Description:* Mini chats automatically close after a user is no longer a part of the conversation. Earlier even when users were not a part of a conversation, the chat box remained enabled.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2991

* *Title:* Fixed selection of appropriate Zimlet

* *Description:* If a meeting is opened with dedicated mode and the user is authenticated then the Zimlet must be equal to the one opened by Zextras.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2997

* *Title:* Fixed `UsersCleanup` command

* *Description:* Fixed `UsersCleanup` command to remove deleted users' data from participants list of all conversations

..


* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3013

* *Title:* Remove secondary bar on external meeting

* *Description:*  Removed secondary bar on external meeting and updated year in the external access login page

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3022

* *Title:* Hide Emoji panel on dropping file

* *Description:* Fixed an unexpected behaviour that prevented the emoji panel to close when it is opened and a file is dropped in a conversation with the purpose of sending it

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3027

* *Title:* Remove new meeting notification on meeting external tab

* *Description:* Notifications of new meetings have been removed on participating in a meeting from an external tab.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3031

* *Title:* Minichat configuration now differentiates the conversations to show

* *Description:* Users can now decide whether to show mini chats based on the chat as the configuration differentiates between one to one chats, groups, and spaces.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3035

* *Title:* Meetings on external tab require login if domain is different from user's one

* *Description:* Meetings on external tab require login if the domain is different from the user's one because login data are saved on local storage

