.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.6.0
=======================================

Release Date: October 4th, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-300

* *Title:* OTP Label is now customizable

* *Description:* Users can now edit labels of newly generated TOTPs.

.. rubric:: Drive

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1207

* *Title:* Window title now reads Drive in place of Zimbra Drive.

* *Description:* The title of Drive window for external users has changed to "Drive".

.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-325

* *Title:* Enhanced Mailbox move speed

* *Description:* Optimizations to the `MailboxMove` command operation now speeds up the operation thereby reducing the time taken.

..

* *Issue ID:* PS-342

* *Title:* Tika indexing exceptions management enhanced

* *Description:* Documents that raise 204 (no content) and 422 (unprocessable entity) HTTP codes as a result of Tika parsing are no longer re-tried and a log is reported in the `mailbox.log` file.

.. rubric:: Team

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2317

* *Title:* Optimized Team performance to address lag

* *Description:* Zextras Team now performs better and no longer lags after prolonged usage.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2440

* *Title:* Updated logs for ChatAutoCleanup procedure

* *Description:* The ChatAutoCleanup procedure now no longer shows incomplete logs.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-2510

* *Title:* Teams no longer saves mute status of exiting users

* *Description:* Users' mute status is no longer remembered by Teams and users returning to an ongoing conversation are not muted -- irrespective of their mute status when exiting.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3034

* *Title:* Improved Team file download

* *Description:* Users sometimes faces issues when downloading files sent by other users. The download of a file from one-to-one chat now no longer suffers casual failures due to buffer issues.

..

* *Issue ID:* TEAMS-3108

* *Title:* Fixed a paste issue on Chrome versions higher than 91.

* *Description:* Fixed issue where users, on chrome version higher than 92, experienced issues when pasting text in a conversation.
