.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Zextras <https://www.zextras.com/>
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0

Zextras Suite Changelog - Release 3.8.0
=======================================

Release Date: November 29th, 2021

.. rubric:: Auth

* *Issue ID:* AUTH-252

* *Title:* Double click support for zimlets

* *Description:* Added support for double-click to the zimlets in the webmail.


.. rubric:: Backup

* *Issue ID:* BCK-641

* *Title:* False-positive errors in coherency check operation fixed

* *Description:* Fixed a bug that caused false-positive errors to be reported during the doCoherencyCheck operations if any tags/flags were present.

..

* *Issue ID:* BCK-643

* *Title:* doSmartScan help usage example fixed

* *Description:* Added the `start` parameter to doSmartScan example in the command help which was missing.


.. rubric:: Drive

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1366

* *Title:* Permit renaming of files without extension parameter

* *Description:* In Drive, you can now rename files even if their extension is missing.

..

* *Issue ID:* DRIV-1510

* *Title:* Add app version and powered by Zextras section

* *Description:* A section reporting the app version is now present in
  the Drive tab at its bottom left corner. Clicking on it will copy
  the current Drive version to the clipboard.


.. rubric:: Powerstore

* *Issue ID:* PS-349

* *Title:* Improve the creation of JSON file under account_info during MailboxMove

* *Description:* Under a few specific scenarios during the MailboxMove procedure, the `account_info` file was corrupted, making the JSON file invalid. This has now been fixed.

..

* *Issue ID:* PS-356

* *Title:* Improvements to commands usage examples

* *Description:* Updated the usage examples to reflect the current parameters for the following commands: `doCreateBucket`, `doDeleteAllDelegatedRights`, `doDeleteBucket`, `doRestartService`, `doStartService`, `doStopService`, `doUpdateBucket` and `doUploadLicense`.


