..

   **Warning**

   Product and Translation is still in beta stage. Incomplete or
   imperfect translations are to be expected.

.. _product_localisation:

Product Localisation
--------------------

Zextras Suite and its zimlets are available in all languages officially
supported by Zimbra.

Unofficial languages can still be used but are not officially supported
and require the language to be added to Zimbra.

.. _available_languages:

Available Languages
-------------------

Zextras Suite’s main language is English, and the following languages
are also included:

.. csv-table:: 
 
   "**English** (GB, US, AU)", "**Italian**", "**French**"
   "**Spanish**", "**Portuguese** (PT, BR)", "German"
   "Dutch", "Turkish", "Russian"
   "Thai", "Hindi", "Indonesian" 
   "Japanese", "Simplified Chinese", ""

This includes both the Client components (Drive, Team and Docs Zimlets,
plus the Client Zimlet and any other collateral client entity) and, to
our best effort, the Zextras Administration Zimlet.

The Zextras CLI is not internationalized nor translated and there are no
current plans to do so.

.. _volunteer_translators:

Volunteer Translators
---------------------

Zextras makes available an online translation platform to those
qualified individuals wishing to help the translation process.

Translation in languages that are not currently supported by Zimbra is
encouraged, albeit we cannot guarantee any estimate upon the official
inclusion in the product.

Please contact translators@zextras.com for any information on the topic
or to volunteer as a translator.
