Changelog 2024-11
=================

New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202411-903 Invalid Carbonio Mesh token to access rabbitmq

We found the workaround for an issue involving |wsc| and rabbitmq, which were not able to communicate due to an invalid (|mesh|) token.

Changes in the documentation can be found in Section
:ref:`rabbitmq`, those in the source code in :pr:`795`.


.. rubric:: 202411-902 Change IP address on Carbonio CE Single-Server

We added directions to guide in the change of the private IP address of a |product| Single-Server.

See :ref:`change-ip` for the documentation and :pr:`794` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202411-898 New Sections in Admin Panel documentation

We reorganised the information about |product| authentication
methods, adding a new sections (:ref:`create-auth`) that acts as
an introduction and provides the references to configure them
either from CLI or the |adminui|.

We also added a new section, :ref:`ap-create-user`, to make the
three most common domain-related tasks more prominent in the
Admin's technical documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in in :pr:`789`.


.. rubric:: 202411-891  Documentation Changelog October 2024

The technical documentation's changelog has been published

Changes in the documentation can be found in Section
:doc:`/changelog/changelogs/202410`, those in the source code
in :pr:`779` and :pr:`787`.


.. rubric:: 202411-884 New  Role Mesh 

When deploying a scenario with multiple |mesh| servers, only in the first Directory Server should be installed. 
The introduction of this *Mesh-only* Role allows also to decouple the installation of multiple Directory Servers along multiple |Mesh| servers. 

See :ref:`role-mesh-only-install` for the documentation and :pr:`773` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202411-881 Add the list of Roles to Scenario description 

We added to each installation scenario the list of Roles that will be installed on each Node that is part of the scenario.

See each scenario description in :ref:`scenarios` for the documentation and :pr:`772` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202411-839 Change IP address on Carbonio CE Single-Server

We added directions to guide in the change of the private IP address of a Carbonio CE Simgle-Server.

See :ref:`change-ip` for the documentation and :pr:`775` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202411-781 Add Carbonio APIs

We added to the documentation all the available API to allow programmatic access to |product|.

See :ref:`carbonio-api` for the documentation and :pr:`761` for the source code.

*****

Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202411-920 Fix Configuration of External Active Directory

There was an error in the name of the local domain (Carbonio) on which accounts are to be created. It has been changed to the correct name.


.. rubric:: 202411-900 Typos on wsc page

We fixed two typos in the :ref:`role-wsc-install` that could lead to misunderstandings.

Changes in the source code can be found in  in :pr:`790`.


.. rubric:: 202411-897 Wronk link to storages API

The wrong hyperlink to the |storage| API has been fixed.

Changes in the documentation can be found in Section
:ref:`carbonio-api`, those in the source code in :pr:`788`.


.. rubric:: 202411-892 Prevent Virtualhost Certificate failure

We added a note to make sure that after each pasted Certificate for a Virtual host, the Administrator adds a CR (Carriage Return) to prevent the failure of the Certificate upload. 

See :ref:`ap-vhost` for the documentation; :pr:`778` :pr:`791` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202411-890 Typo in installation instructions

A wrong redirect operator was used in the command to setup the FQDN for |product|.

Changes in the documentation can be found in Section
:ref:`preliminary`, those in the source code in :pr:`777`.

End of changelog
