Changelog 2024-12
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202412-986 Promote Architecture of Carbonio section

The *Architecture of Carbonio* section has been promoted as a
top-level section which also includes the Roles' manual installation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`878`. and :pr:`876`.


.. rubric:: 202412-985 Let images open in new tab

We modified the code that opens links to external resources in a new
tab to let also images always open in new tabs.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`877`.


.. rubric:: 202412-984 Review Install section


The documentation's *Install* section has been improved to include a
description of the *Ansible* and *Manual* installation procedures,
including a schematic workflow of the manual installation

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`875`.


.. rubric:: 202412-982 Review Introduction section

The documentation's introduction has been improved:

* Section *How to report an issue* has been promoted as top-level
  entry

* There, a link to the *Monitoring Carbonio* section has been added,
  to help users in the data collection when they open tickets

* Slight fixes to text have been introduced to fix some inaccuracy

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`873` and :pr:`876`.


.. rubric:: 202412-980 Full Redundant Scenario improvements

The description of the Full Redundant Scenario has been improved.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`869`.


.. rubric:: 202412-977 New diagram for Full Standard scenario

A graphviz-based diagram has been added to the Full Standard
Scenario's documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`866`.


.. rubric:: 202412-971 Remove |wsc| notification and |vs| routing

Notifications for the |wsc| Role and routing for the |VS| Role have
been removed from the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`850`, :pr:`851`, and
:pr:`852`.


.. rubric:: 202412-965 Improvements to the |product| installation on
            RHEL systems

The installation of |product| on RHEL systems has been actualised and
improved; this had some impact also on the installation requirements
for both Ansible and Ubuntu.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`844` and :pr:`848`.


.. rubric:: 202412-963 Fix titles in CLI reference

The titles of some commands were renamed to be clearer and coherent
with the command itself.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`842`.


.. rubric:: 202412-952 Implement sphinx-ext-graphviz extension

We added the ``sphinx-ext-graphviz`` extension to the build
configuration to allow the generation of scenario diagrams in PNG
format from graphviz source code that we can extract automatically.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`824`.


.. rubric:: 202412-950 Clean up CLI reference

The CLI reference was amended to remove deprecated and obsolete
commands.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`823`.


.. rubric:: 202412-943 Rewrite manual installation for Scenario
            Essential

The Manual installation of the *Single-Server* Scenario was rewritten
using stepwise directions to improve clarity and support an easier
workflow for the whole process.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`825`, :pr:`828`,
:pr:`831`, :pr:`833`, and :pr:`835`.


.. rubric:: 202412-941 Remove DB Connector node from Ansible
            installation

The DB Connector Role is no longer part of |product| infrastructure,
so we commented it out in the Ansible inventory files.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`822`.


.. rubric:: 202412-938 Rewrite Scenario Essential

The Manual installation of the *Essential* Scenario was rewritten in a
step-by-step way to improve clarity and support an easier workflow for
the whole process.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`855`.


.. rubric:: 202412-935 Add |product| repository configuration

We added instructions to allow Administrators to configure
autonomously the |product| repository.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`834` and :pr:`846`
(fix for Repository path on Ubuntu).


.. rubric:: 202412-926 Review list of |wsc| ports

We reviewed the list of ports used by |wsc|, added them to the Role to
improve their visibility, and made some miro improvement to the
overall wording.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`812`.


.. rubric:: 202412-921 Upgrade Procedure to 24.12.0

This issue introduces in teh documentation all changes in the upgrade
procedure to 24.12.0, including:

* Drop Section *Upgrade from 24.3*, replaced by *Upgrade from 24.7*

* Updated list of known issues

* Removal of the upgrade procedure using Ansible and of Pgpool

* The procedure flow has been reorganised, with improved text to make
  description more fluid

* There is an explicit mention that all |product| services must be
  running during upgrade

* The upgrade to PostgreSQL 16 has been marked as mandatory, because
  PostgreSQL 12 has reached its EOL

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`814`, :pr:`816`, and
:pr:`818`.


.. rubric:: 202412-916 Read-only mode for Legacy Chats

With the introduction of the new |wsc| module, administrators can
force its use by setting the previous Chats module in read-only mode.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`821`.


.. rubric:: 202412-913 How to remove a Node from a |product|
            infrastructure

We introduced a guided procedure to remove a Node from a |product|
infrastructure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`817`.


.. rubric:: 202412-907 New |adminui| features for 24.12.0

We reviewed the list of ports used by |wsc|, added them to the Role to
improve their visibility, and made some minor improvement to the
overall wording.

In this issue we collected the documentation for the |adminui| for the
new features introduced in 24.12.0, including:

* what happens to blob and metadata and to shared files after an
  account is closed

* When multiple domains are configured, how can a user search for
  users in other domains

* A new sections explains how to optimise the DOCS and Editor
  configuration

* New packages have been added to the Roles installation

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`802`, :pr:`803`, and
:pr:`819`.


.. rubric:: 202412-841 Add MIssing RHEL command for Drive migration

We added the installation instructions for package
:file:`carbonio-drive-migration`, needed in the migration from Zextras
Suite compatible platform, which were missing for RHEL systems.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`839`.


.. rubric:: 202412-837 User search across domains

When multiple domains are configured, we introduced explanation for
how can a user search for users in other domains from the CLI.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`820`

*****


Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202412-981 Slight corrections in the introduction

A few commands were amended to be more correct.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`870`.

.. rubric:: 202412-973 Remove notification packages

The packages that provide notifications for |wsc| have been removed
from the Roles installation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`862`.

.. rubric:: 202412-962 Failing copy & paste of Ansible Inventory files

We fixed a little mistake that prevented to copy & paste Ansible's
inventory files for |product| installation (although downloading the
inventory still worked).

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`840`.

.. rubric:: 202412-961 Wrong Ansible inventory for full-redundant
            scenario

The Ansible inventory file for the *Full Redundant* Scenario has been
fixed: the number of Nodes has been increased to 14, and in the
documentation two alternatives have been described to forward the UDP
stream for video calls.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`863`.

.. rubric:: 202412-923 |wsc| recording

We clarified how the files produced by recorded meetings are processed
and where they are stored.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`810`.

.. rubric:: 202412-871 Remove Role DB Connector

The DB connector Role, based on the Pgpool sotware, has been removed
from the 24.12.0 release.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`807`.

*****

End of changelog

