
Changelog 2024-10
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202410-469 New Section Troubleshooting

A new section :ref:`ts` has been added, collecting various content
from other parts of the documentation. The user has now all
troubleshooting options in one place, separated by module or topic.

See :ref:`ts` for the documentation, :pr:`720` and
:pr:`722` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-558 Provide ICS and CSV example files for migration to Carbonio

Example files in :file:`ics` and :file:`csv` format have been added
to the documentation as example files to be imported for Calendar
events and Contacts, respectively. For improved readability, they have
been enclosed in drop-downs.

See :ref:`migration` for the documentation, :pr:`709` and
:pr:`710` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-795 Add 24.9.0 changelog

Changelog for the latest |product| release has been added.

See :ref:`carbonio-changelog` for the documentation, :pr:`704` and
:pr:`707` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-799 Changes to upgrade procedure

The :ref:`upgrade using Ansible <upgrade-ansible>` procedure had been
amended by mentioning to update the Ansible playbook before starting
the |product| upgrade.

Also the :ref:`Manual upgrade <upgrade-manual>` was modified by
removing the :command:`zmcontrol stop` step.

See :ref:`carbonio-upgrade` for the documentation, :pr:`711` and
:pr:`725` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-800 Upgrade Ansible playbook

The directions for the |product| upgrade with Ansible have been rewritten to mention that the playbook itself must be upgraded.

See :ref:`carbonio-upgrade` for the documentation, :pr:`725` and
:pr:`726` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-801 Remove concept of supported versions

The concept of `Supported version` for |product| may be misleading, so it has been removed.


.. rubric:: 202410-802 Give more emphasis to the creation and management of e-mail aliases

The creation of *e-mail Aliases* is an important part of |product| 
operations: for this reason a new section has been added

See :ref:`ap-acc-alias` for the documentation, :pr:`802` for the
source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-803 Improve search within tabs

When a search result is in a tab which is not currently open, the
result is not shown. We replaced the most complex occurrence in the
docs.

See :ref:`ap-accounts` for the documentation, :pr:`717` for the source
code.
    


.. rubric:: 202410-805 Carbonio license activation using CLI command 

Clarify on which Node the CLI command for registering |product| must be executed.


.. rubric:: 202410-806 Split Carbonio Installation Instructions

The :ref:`installation instructions <scenarios>` have been split and renamed to improve clarity and prevent misunderstandings.

See :pr:`727` and :pr:`728` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-807 Additional Changes in 24.9.0

In this issue, a few changes for the **24.9.0** release were
implemented:

* Rename *Uninstall a Directory Replica* to :ref:`ds-replica-stop`
* Rename *Update from 24.7.1* to :ref:`upgrade-ansible`
* Rename *Update from previous versions* to
  :ref:`upgrade-manual`. Introductory text has also been changed.
* Added a note in Step 4. of the :ref:`upgrade-manual` to make sure
  that the :file:`carbonio-message-broker` is installed on the
  :ref:`role-mesh-install` Node after the upgrade
* Clarified on which Node to execute the CLI command to :doc:`activate
  Carbonio </postinstall/license>`


See :pr:`729` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-809 Implement Documentation Changelog

We added a new section :ref:`chlog-doc` that lists all changes made to the |product| documentation.

See :pr:`741` and :pr:`743` for the source code


.. rubric:: 202410-811 Provide a jar file to fix encoding issues

A downloadable jar file that fixes a few encoding issues has been
added to the documentation.

.. note:: The issue has since been resolved and no longer requires a
   manual task to be fixed.
    
See :pr:`734` and :pr:`735` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-812 Move Requirements Before Ansible Upgrade

* Clarify that the upgrade procedure using Ansible requires upgrading the playbook to the correct version.
* Move Section  :ref:`up-prev-req` before the start of the upgrade procedure
* Add command to check the  version of the Playobook installed on the control node

  See :ref:`upgrade-ansible` for the documentation, https://github.com/zextras/tech-doc/pull/739 for the source code


.. rubric:: 202410-850 Modified structure of Upgrade section

Ad hoc pages have been added for upgrading from specific Carbonio versions (24.7.x, 24.5.0 and 24.3.x)


.. rubric:: 202410-853 Updated browser compatibility

Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge (EdgeHTML) have been removed from the browser compatibility list


.. rubric:: 202410-855 Add section About Documentation

We added a new top-level section, which feature changes made to the documentation (*"Documentation changelog"*)

See :ref:`chlog-doc` for the documentation, :pr:`755` for the source code


.. rubric:: 202410-860 Carbonio 24.9.1 changelog

Added new product changelog for release 24.9.1

*****

Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202410-777 Conditions to run Ansible playbooks for upgrade

Added the default running conditions of the :command:`zxbot.carbonio_upgrade` playbook 

See :ref:`up-ansible-steps` for the documentation, :pr:`708` for the source code


.. rubric:: 202410-810 Package name change for video recording feature (WSC)

The package that enables video recording in WSC is called :file:`carbonio-videorecorder`.
      
In addition, there is no longer a need for cluster addition tasks to
be performed with the :command:`carbonio` commands.

See :ref:`role-vs-wsc-install` for the documentation, :pr:`733` for
the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-814 Added rpm -q command in manual upgrade

Added RHEL verification command for :file:`carbonio-message-broker` package installation in Step 4. of the Upgrade procedure

See :ref:`upgrade-manual` for the documentation, :pr:`740` for the source code


.. rubric:: 202410-819 Replace UTF-8 with UTF-7

A mistake was done and fixed, where *UTF-8* was written instead of **UTF-7**.

.. note:: The documentation was part of issue 202410-811, which was removed.

See :pr:`744` for the source code.


.. rubric:: 202410-840 Corrections applied to the migration section

A command in the backup export task was changed and the export path was fixed


.. rubric:: 202410-872 Typo in Mesh installation command on RHEL8

There was a typo in the RHEL installation command that prevented copying the whole command.

See :ref:`role-mesh-install` for the documentation, :pr:`760` for the source code.

*****

End of changelog
