Changelog 2025-04
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202504-1169 Improved ClamAV documentation

We added a missing :command:`zmcontrol restart` to Section *Disable ClamAV*, modified a note, and added directions to remove the antivirus updater.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1089`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1167 Deprecation of legacy Chats and Video Server

The Legacy Chats and the old |vs| Roles have been deprecated and will be removed in next release.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1079` and :pr:`1080`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1165  Documentation Changelog March 2025

The technical documentation's changelog has been published

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1075`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1163 Mandatory upgrade to PostgreSQL 16

PostgreSQL version 12 is no longer supported by carbonio, therefore upgrade to version 16 has become a mandatory step in the upgrade procedure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1074`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1162 PostgreSQL client version 

We added directions to install the correct version **16** of PostgreSQL client on all supported platforms, whenever it is required, i.e., in all the scenarios that require its installation to communicate with the database.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1090`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1161 Installation of Mesh agent package 

We moved the ``service-discover-agent`` package as the first to be installed as part of the Roles that are not installed together with the `Mesh` or `Mesh & Directory` Roles. We also amended the Installation scenarios and the `Video Server & Video Recording (WSC)` and `DS Replica` Roles.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1065`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1160 Specific configuration of Carbonio Video Server

We improved visibility of a specific |vs| configuration (i.e., different IP addresses for inbound and outbound traffic) that requires manual editing of file  :file:`/etc/janus/janus.jcfg` 

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1078`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1156 WSC group missing in Essential scenario

The [workStreamServers] section was added to Essential scenario's inventory file

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1065`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1155 Add Hungarian as Community supported language

The Hungarian language is now Community supported and has been added to the available |product| languages.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1064`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1153 2FA  management by Admin Panel

|adminui| Documentation has been improved with a case-by-case analysis of the various configuration alternatives.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1073`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1152 Change warning for PostgreSQL upgrade

We made clear that PostgreSQL must be updated to version **12**.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1058`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1149 Add Mesh troubleshooting command

The :command:`consul intention list` command has been added to the troubleshooting section.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1055`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1146 Add Kyrgyz as Community supported language

The Kyrgyz language is now Community supported and has been added to the available |product| languages.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1055`.


.. rubric:: 202504-1144 Changes to Credential Management section

Section `Credential Management` was renamed to `Service Credential Management` and its content rewritten for mode clarity. Also the corresponding section in the |adminui|'s `Accounts` section was updated.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1050`.


.. rubric:: 202504-974 Missing reindex command

A missing command for ``carbonio-tasks-db`` reindexing within PostgreSQL has been added to the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1061`.


.. rubric:: 202504-914 How to change hostname on |product|

Step-by-step procedure to change of hostname on a |product| infrastructure,

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1047`


.. rubric:: 202504-901 Clean ActiveSync table

We added directions to help Adminitrators to manually clean the PostgreSQL's ``active_sync`` table when it grows far too large for an automatic clean.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1048`.

*****


Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202504-1119 Exchange command for SSH keys is missing

Documentation for the ``zmupdateauthkeys`` has been added to the |carbonio| post installation tasks.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1049`.

*****

End of changelog

