Changelog 2025-01
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202501-1042 Removed notification packages in Single-Scenario

These two packages were removed from the single-server scenario: carbonio-notification-push-db
and carbonio-notification-push


.. rubric:: 202501-1038 New package in 24.12 release

A new package ``carbonio-catalog`` is required in release **24.12** and must be installed manually upon upgrading.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`930`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1032 Add example to script output

We added an example output to a script that extracts incompatible groups from Zextras-compatible platform during the migration procedure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`921`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1029 New layout for API index

The index pages of the API has been renewed and improved, to allow for a quicker search and access to the relevant APIs.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`937` and :pr:`939`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1027 Add Auth section in Troubleshooting

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`912`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1026 Improve Troubleshooting section

The *Troubleshooting Carbonio* Section has now two more subsections: the new *Authentication* and *Directory Server*, split from the existent *Mesh and Directory Server*.

Changes in the Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`904`, :pr:`905`,:pr:`907`, and :pr:`909`. 


.. rubric:: 202501-1024 Documentation for 24.12.1

Documentation for |product| version **24.12.1** has been published.

Changes in the Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`902` and :pr:`903`. 


.. rubric:: 202501-1017 New terms in glossary

New terms have been added to the glossary, to improve visibility of
several words and concepts important for |product|. For the same
reason, also a number of new items have been added to the index. 

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`916`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1007 Rewrite Introduction

We rewrote the introduction to provide a more up-to-date description of |product| and of its functionalities.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`927`.


.. rubric:: 202501-1001 Separate upgrade-related troubleshooting issues

Section *Troubleshooting Carbonio* has been populated with a new subsection *Common Issues*, that collects issues not directly related with the upgrade procedure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`900`. 


.. rubric:: 202501-1000 Rename Sections

Sections *Admin by CLI* and *Admin by GUI* have renamed for clarity in *Admin by Command Line* and *Admin by Graphical Interface*, respectively.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`899`. 


.. rubric:: 202501-999 Move Migration to Carbonio section

Section *Migration to Carbonio* has been switched place with *Post-Install*.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`898`.


.. rubric:: 202501-998 Removed note for Files

An obsolete note has been removed from the list of Components.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`895`.


.. rubric:: 202501-995  Documentation Changelog December 2024

The technical documentation's changelog has been published

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`827`.


.. rubric:: 202501-986 Promote Architecture of Carbonio section

The *Architecture of Carbonio* section has been promoted as a top-level section which also includes the Components' manual installation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`878`. and :pr:`876`.


.. rubric:: 202501-985 Let images open in new tab

We modified the code that opens links to external resources in a new tab to let also images always open in new tabs.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`877`.


.. rubric:: 202501-984 Review Install section


The documentation's *Install* section has been improved to include a description of the *Ansible* and *Manual* installation procedures, including a schematic workflow of the manual installation

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`875`.


.. rubric:: 202501-983 Review Upgrade Section

To simplify the structure of the *Upgrade* Section, we moved some content (specifically, PostgreSQL upgrade and connections to the Database) to Section *Troubleshooting*.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`874` and :pr:`889`.


.. rubric:: 202501-982 Review Introduction section

The documentation's introduction has been improved:

* Section *How to report an issue* has been promoted as top-level entry

* There, a link to the *Monitoring Carbonio* section has been added, to help users in the data collection when they open tickets

* Slight fixes to text have been introduced to fix some inaccuracy

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`873` and :pr:`876`.


.. rubric:: 202501-977 New diagram for Full Standard scenario

A graphviz-based diagram has been added to the Full Standard Scenario's documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`866`.


.. rubric:: 202501-976 New diagram for Full Standard scenario

A graphviz-based diagram has been added to the Full Small Scenario's documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`865`.


.. rubric:: 202501-975 Add a graph to Ansible installation

A diagram was added to explain the |product| installation with Ansible.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`864`.


.. rubric:: 202501-972 Factorise pending-setups instructions

Instrutions for running the :command:`pending-setups` command have been put in a dedicated file to be included where necessary.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`858`.


.. rubric:: 202501-968 Carbonio 24.12.0 product changelog

The |product| Product Changelog including all changes in the software has been added to the 24.12.0 documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`846` and :pr:`856`.


.. rubric:: 202501-965 Improvements to the |product| installation on RHEL systems

The installation of |product| on RHEL systems has been actualised and improved; this had some impact also on the installation requirements for both Ansible and Ubuntu.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`844` and :pr:`848`.


.. rubric:: 202501-964 Review browser compatibility table

We updated the list of browser supported by |product|.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`859`.


.. rubric:: 202501-938 Rewrite Scenario Essential

The Manual installation of the *Essential* Scenario was rewritten in a step-by-step way to improve clarity and support an easier workflow for the whole process.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`855`. 


.. rubric:: 202501-804 Restore REUSE compatibility

The compatibility of the documentation with the REUSE framework has been restored.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`892`.


.. rubric:: 202501-746 Testing and benchmarking an S3 bucket

We added a new piece of documentation that guide a user in checking
the availability and connection to an S3 bucket and in testing the
bucket's performances.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`920`.

*****


Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202501-1044 Uniform usage of White-label

We made sure that the |wl| term, which was used with different syntax, is now been used consistently with the same spelling everywhere.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`932`.

.. rubric:: 202501-1036 Fixed avdb updater service

A step necessary for its installation and the command for Red Hat have been added.
The package has been added to the Proxy role

.. rubric:: 202501-1031 Wrong path of mailbox.log file

In the `Migration to Carbonio - From Zextras Suite Compatible
Platform` Section, we fixed the path of the :file:`mailbox.log` file.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`920`.

.. rubric:: 202501-1005 Package missing in Database Connector Component removal

After the removal of the *Database Connector* Component, the ``carbonio-task-db`` was not in the list of those to install on the *Database* Component.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`915`.

.. rubric:: 202501-994 Carbonio services check

We fixed the command to restart services after the installation and added a new section with directions to check whether services are running or not.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`891`.

.. rubric:: 202501-981 Slight corrections in the introduction

A few commands were amended to be more correct.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`870`.

.. rubric:: 202501-973 Remove notification packages

The packages that provide notifications for |wsc| have been removed from the Components installation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`862`.

.. rubric:: 202501-961 Wrong Ansible inventory for full-redundant scenario

The Ansible inventory file for the *Full Redundant* Scenario has been fixed: the number of Nodes has been increased to 14, and in the documentation two alternatives have been described to forward the UDP stream for video calls.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`863`.

*****

End of changelog

