Changelog 2025-10
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202510-1446 Improve doc for Chats attribute

A new attribute, ``carbonioSearchSpecifiedDomainsByFeature`` available to Global Administrators only, allows |wsc| users from a domain to search for users in selected other domains configured on a |product| multi-tenant infrastructure. Use limitations and interactions with the attribute ``carbonioSearchAllDomainsByFeature`` have also been added to the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1277`


.. rubric:: 202510-1444 No longer needed memcached configuration

``memcached`` does no longer need to connect through a dedicated port, therefore its manual configuration is of no use. We removed all mentions and added a post-upgrade command to clear its configuration.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1278`


.. rubric:: 202510-1442 Updated package version

The architecture page has been updated with the latest version of the carbonio-files-ui package.
Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1272`


.. rubric:: 202510-1439 Remove outdated command

|product|-related services no longer need to be manually (re-)started after upgrade, since they are now managed as :command:`systemd` units.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1276`


.. rubric:: 202510-1432 Updated packages version

The architecture page has been updated with the latest versions of the carbonio-user-management and carbonio-storages packages.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1262`


.. rubric:: 202510-1422 Fixed Carbonio activate license page

The “Activate License” page now correctly directs users to the intended landing page.
The content has also been reviewed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1292`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1405  Add 25.9.0 changelog

Changelog for the latest Carbonio release has been added.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1243` and :pr:`1245`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1404 Add a warning in retention management

We clarified that the COS' option has a minimum fixed value of 31 days.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1242`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1394 Add changelog of repo sps-carbonio-ha-ansible-setup

Changelog for Ansibles's Cluster Service Redundancy repository has been added to |product|'s changelogs.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1248`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1391  Documentation Changelog August 2025

The technical documentation's changelog for August 2025 has been published.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1237`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1387 Rewrite Component Event Streaming

The Event Streaming Component has been rewritten to make clear that its manual installation is deprecated, because it will be using Apache Kafka Raft (KRaft) 4.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1234`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1381 Improved ActiveSync index documentation

Documentation of the ActiveSync indexing functionality has been reviewed and vastly improved.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1256`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1378 Support of CardDAV and CalDAV

We added CardDAV and CalDAV to the list of supported protocols to interact with |product|.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1232`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1371 Review Scenario Redundant With User Mail Replica

Scenario Redundant With User Mail Replica was thoroughly reviewed to keep it up to date with the latest developments and to simplify the overall information, by removing no-longer needed information.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1231`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1356 Add command to CLI

The set of commands :command:`carbonio core doCreateBucket`, used to create buckets on remote providers have been added to the CLI reference.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1227`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1344 Update diagrams of installation scenarios

Diagrams of the installation scenarios have been replaced, making them clearer and aligned with the current terminology used in the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1223`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1343 Add Carbonio Mesh k/v option

We added option ``carbonio-files/max-dowloadable-size-in-mb``, which is by default **unset**.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1222`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1307 Remove Legacy Chats

Documentation for the legacy Chats has been removed from the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1244`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1300 New 25.9.0 features in Admin Panel

New and changed features for the |adminui| introduced in release 25.9.0, including:

* New supported language: Slovenian
* In CLI, module ``HA`` has been replaced and obsoleted by ``MailReplica``
* The contract end date has been added to the *Subscription* Section

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1220`, :pr:`1226`, and :pr:`1229`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1299  Documentation Changelog July 2025

The technical documentation's changelog for July 2025 has been published.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1218`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1284 New required task before opening a ticket

We added instructions to make sure that customers upgrade their |product| infrastructure before opening a ticket.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1221`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1263 Remove mailbox database bootstrap from upgrade

Command :command:`mailbox-db-bootstrap` is no longer required in the upgrade procedure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1225`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1257 Address Briefcases migration errors

We added in the *Troubleshooting* Section some indication about errors appearing during or after converting Briefcases while migrating from |suite| compatible platforms to |product|.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1239`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1254 DB Connectors improved documentation

Documentation for the DB Connectors installation has been updated to reflect that they are tightly coupled with their respective Component.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1275`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1235 Remove config.manual configuration of Preview Component

Manual configuration of file :file:`preview.ini` is no longer necessary and has been removed from the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1219`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1233 Rename Active Replica in User Mail Replica

The Active Replica feature has been renamed to |ur|.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1186`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1212 Rearrange content of Carbonio Backup Section

Section |backup| in *Admin by CLI* has been reorganised to improve clarity and allow for an easier access to its content, especially the architecture and the Legal Hold feature.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1241`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1106 Restructure postPinstall section

Section Post-Install has been removed from the documentation, with its content included in the *Install* and the *Admin by Command Line* Sections.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1238`.


.. rubric:: 202510-988 Organise included files of Section Architecture

Since the |product| Architecture has been moved as a new standalone section, also the files included there have been moved to a new directory.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1301`.

*****

Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202510-1457 Removed limitation from Chats section

The line stating “It can not be installed on the same Node as Carbonio VideoServer” has been removed as this restriction is outdated.
Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1297`


.. rubric:: 202510-1450 Update zmcontrol command output

The output of commands :command:`zmcontrol status` and :command:`zmcontrol -v` has been updated and fixed, since the one present was of a test environment.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1281` and :pr:`1284`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1448 Review User Mail Replica Installation

Scenario |rur| contained a few slight mistakes and typos, which have been fixed. Also, the role polayed by the Directory Replica Component during the installation has been clarified.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1279` and :pr:`1280`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1436 Fix incorrect statement about zmcontrol

A sentence referring to the zmcontrol command has been corrected.
Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1268`


.. rubric:: 202510-1437 Wrong PostgreSQL instructions on redundant scenario

We removed PostgreSQL configuration instructions from Scenario Redundant's Nodes two and three, which do not have PostgreSQL installed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1271`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1434 Fixed inventory in Redundant with User Mail Replica scenario

Redundant with User Mail Replica scenario: the [replicaDirectoryServers] group in the inventory file is now left empty to ensure the group remains defined but unpopulated.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1265`


.. rubric:: 202510-1431 Wrong releases referenced in upgrade procedures

Upgrade instructions still referenced old versions, causing confusion to readers. We improved them by adding a variable that is evaluated to the previous version and improved wording of the surrounding text.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1263`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1430 Wrong code blocks in RHEL requirements

A few typos were fixed, that prevented the correct display of code blocks with instructions to add RHEL repositories required for the installation on |product| on RHEL systems.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1260` and :pr:`1261`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1421 25.9.0 documentation feedback

We implemented the feedback received on the documentation of 25.9.0's new features, in particular we removed *Known Issues* that were present in both upgrade procedures, from previous and from older versions.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1255`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1413 Missing PostgreSQL configuration in Scenarios

The missing configuration of PostgreSQL was added to the Scenario installation procedures.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1254`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1388 Wrong columns in Administrator's permissions comparison table

The columns of a comparison table between Global and Domain Administrator's permissions were switched.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1236`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1386 Wrong Admin Panel's option

The description of White-label's option *Login URL* has been corrected.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1235`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1383 Replace wrong link

A broken link in the *Video Recording Notes* has been fixed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1233`.


.. rubric:: 202510-1347 Fix default value of Carbonio Mesh k/v option

We removed the default value of option ``carbonio-files/max-uploadable-size-in-mb``, which is initially **unset**.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1228`.

*****

End of changelog
