Changelog 2025-03
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202503-1139 Change WSC attribute name

Attribute ``carbonioFeatureChatsEnabled`` has been renamed to "carbonioFeatureWscEnabled".

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1041`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1137  Documentation Changelog February 2025

The technical documentation's changelog has been published

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1038`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1129 Add 25.3.0 changelog


Changelog for the latest |product| release has been added.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1031`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1125 Add locale requirement

We introduced an explicit requirement for the default ``locale``
required by |product|.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1027`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1124 Simplified manual upgrade procedures

The manual upgrade procedure pages have been simplified and the
additional tasks to be done during the manual procedure have been
brought back from the *Troubleshooting* section.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1030`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1121 Web login procedure alternatives

We added to the documentation some CLI commands to configure how users
can log in to the Web mail, either by using their full e-mail address
or simply their username.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1024`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1117 Clarification about Ubuntu installation method

Version causes some issues due to missing software on this kind of
installation. Therefore, we clarified that the (full) Ubuntu Server is
required.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1023`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1115 Pre-installation checks for Scenario HA

We added a number of checks to the preliminary phase of Scenario HA's installation, to help in the initial steps of the installation process.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1037`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1114 Instructions to fix e-mails rendering problems

We added, as a known issue, the solution for a problem in the rendering of the e-mails in |product| webmail.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1021`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1113 Ubuntu 20.04 deprecation notice

*Ubuntu 20.04 LTS* goes EOL in May 2025, so we added a deprecation
notice and suggestion to upgrade to *Ubuntu 22.04 LTS*.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1020`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1112 Introduce new Scenario HA

A new Scenario, called *Scenario HA* has been introduced to complete
the offering of pre-cooked installations. This scenario features
redundancy and High Availability for |product| Roles and services.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1013`, :pr:`1015`,
and :pr:`1019`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1105 Carbonio Push Connector and Notification Push packages

We added to the Role description and installation procedures the
packages related to |product|'s Push Connector and Notification Push
services, including DB boostrap commands where required.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1008` and :pr:`1014`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1097 Ansible upgrade improvements

The Ansible upgrade procedure has been changed according to the new
features introduced in |zx| ``zxbot.carbonio_upgrade`` tool.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`992`
and:pr:`997` .


.. rubric:: 202503-1096 New S/MIME CLI commands

We added new CLI commands to manage S/MIME certificates and password policies.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`994`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1095 Changes to ClamAV management

|product|'s antivirus engine, *ClamAV*, has more detailed instructions
to disable it and related services, like antispam, DKIM, and amavis.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`993`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1094 Package ``carbonio-search-ui`` is now a dependency

The package ``carbonio-search-ui`` has now become a  dependency of package ``carbonio-web-ui`` and does not require to be explicitly installed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`995`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1092 Improvements to scenarios installation

We introduced a number of improvements to the Scenario-based
installation to simplify the text: some Role Names have been renamed
for consistency and splitting package ``service-discovery-agent``
installation command from the package installation commands.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`990`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1091 Clarify janus configuration procedure

We clarified how to configure the |vs| *public IP address* for those
scenarios in which the incoming and outgoing IPs addresses do not
coincide.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`999`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1088 Procedure to disable legacy |team|

The procedure to completely disable the legacy |team| module has been
added to the documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`983`. 


.. rubric:: 202503-1087 Package carbonio-user-management Installed on *Mesh & Directory* Node

The ``carbonio-user-management`` package is now installed as part of
the *Mesh & Directory* instead of the *Proxy* Role.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`984`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1079 |team| marked as legacy

|team| has been marked as legacy and will be removed in future
versions. Its replacements, the new |wsc| is already available and
installable on every |product| infrastructure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`978`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1078 Improved  Ansible upgrade procedure

The upgrade procedure using Ansible has been reinstated and improved
with the latest requirements, more clear text, and the paths to follow
depending on how |product| was installed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`980`, :pr:`981`, and:pr:`982` .


.. rubric:: 202503-1076 Improve Section *Carbonio Docs and Files*

We renamed and moved section *Carbonio Docs and Files* and added the
subsection *Files Configuration* to include a new configuration value

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`977`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1075 Ansible playbooks

Changelog for all the Ansible playbook used to install and upgrade |product| are now part of the technical documentation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1040`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1072 Step by step instructions for Full Redundant Scenario

The manual installation procedure in the Full Redundant Scenario has been
rewritten and expanded to include step-by-step instructions for each
of the Nodes.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`988`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1071 Step by step instructions for Essential Scenario

The manual installation procedure in the Essential Scenario has been
rewritten and expanded to include step-by-step instructions for each
of the Nodes.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`974`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1070 Add Role-based package installation

We improved the Roles installation instructions by separating the
installation commands from the surrounding text into dedicated files,
to allow for their inclusion in the installation scenarios.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`972`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1069 Reorganise Single Server Scenario

To the page more readable, in the Single-Server Scenario we added
dropdowns to wrap installation instructions to compact the page and
make all step self-contained and collapsible when completed or not
needed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`973`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1068 New *Admin by Command Line* structure

Section *Admin by Command Line* has been restructured for more clarity
and information access. Now, most of its subsections have the name
corresponding to a |product| Role. Moreover, the |backup|
documentation has been put into an own level.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`970`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1065 Configuration change in case of Proxy Node removal

In case a **Proxy Node** is removed from a |product| infrastructure, the configuration of the Memcached software on the |pv| Role must be changed, to allow the Role to correctly operate.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`967`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1062 None

This issue introduces in the documentation all changes in the upgrade procedure to 25.3

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`966`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1061 New |adminui| features for 25.3.0

This issue adds documentation for the new |adminui| features introduced in |product| version 25.3.0.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`962` and :pr:969`.


.. rubric:: 202503-1056 Add pending-setup

In this new section, we explain the tasks executed by the :command:`pending-setups` when invoked.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1007`. and:pr:`986` .


.. rubric:: 202503-1034 Review structure of section Admin by CLI

The structure of Section *Admin by Command Line* has been modified,
with a couple of pages promoted one level and other that have been
slightly renamed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`935`.


.. rubric:: 202503-990 Step by step instructions for Full Standard Scenario

The manual installation procedure in the Full Standard Scenario has been
rewritten and expanded to include step-by-step instructions for each
of the Nodes.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`987`.


.. rubric:: 202503-989 Step by step instructions for Full Small Scenario

The manual installation procedure in the Full Small Scenario has been
rewritten and expanded to include step-by-step instructions for each
of the Nodes.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`985` and:pr:`986` .


.. rubric:: 202503-978 New package carbonio-search-ui

We added instructions to install the new package :file:`carbonio-search-ui` in the Proxy Role and in all scenarios.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`968`.


.. rubric:: 202503-944 Connect |product| through an HTTP proxy


In this issue, we added a procedure to allow |product| to connect to
the Internet, even when it is placed behind an HTTP proxy, allowing
|product| to operate flawlessly and download antivirus signatures as
well.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1026`.

*****


Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202503-1128 Review upgrade  with Ansible

We further clarified the various options when upgrading with Ansible.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1032`.

.. rubric:: 202503-1104 Restored CLI reference

The CLI reference has been restored after a wrong previous commit removed it from the build.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1006`.

.. rubric:: 202503-1090 Missing packages in database Role Installation

Installation instructions of the Database Role were missing all the
Database Components packages, which were restored and also added to all Scenarios.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`989`.

.. rubric:: 202503-1077 Fix consul commands

We fixed the command syntax to retrieve and set values using the :command:`consul` interface.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`975`.

*****

End of changelog

