Changelog 2025-07
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202507-1247 Rephrase Legal Hold

The description of the Legal Hold feature has been modified for clarity.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1194`.


.. rubric:: 202507-1236 Add a sitemap.xml to docs.zextras.com

We added file sitemap.xml to the |product| web page.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1179`, :pr:`1180`, and :pr:`1181`.


.. rubric:: 202507-1232  Documentation Changelog June 2025

The technical documentation's changelog for June 2025 has been published.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1184` and :pr:`1185`.


.. rubric:: 202507-1230 Remove Old Architecture Diagrams

Old architecture images have been removed.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1187`.


.. rubric:: 202507-1205 New Attribute for Carbonio Tasks

A new CLI attribute, ``carbonioFeatureTasksEnabled`` allows to show or hide |task| at COS or account level from the CLI. Corresponding options in the |adminui| allows to carry out the same operation.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1177`.

*****


Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202507-1252 Missing step in carbonio upgrade procedure

We added the step to execute :command:`carbonio-mailbox-db-bootstrap`, which was missing from the upgrade procedure.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1202`.

.. rubric:: 202507-1242 Rename Components in Architecture Section

A few instances of Components' names have been corrected and uniformed to their official name

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1188`.

.. rubric:: 202507-1231 Change wrong CLI command

A CLI command in the Scenario HA needs to run on the Node hosting the Mailstore & Provisioning instead of the MTA.

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1167`.

.. rubric:: 202507-1228 Add Firewall Requirement for WebSocket Connections

We added as requirement for |product| that WebSocket connections (WSS) be allowed. They use port 443 and may sometimes be blocked by firewall that carry out DPI on the packets (e.g., application firewalls) 

Changes in the source code can be found in :pr:`1178`.

*****

End of changelog

