
Changelog 2026-02
=================


New and Updated Content
-----------------------

.. rubric:: 202602-1678 Moved installation scenarios to Partner Portal

All installation scenarios have been removed from the public documentation (docs.zextras.com) and moved to the Partner Portal, including the “Scenario Redundant with User Mail Replica”.


.. rubric:: 202602-1653 HSM policy criteria not documented in Admin Console documentation

The Admin Console documentation now includes explanations of the available criteria for configuring HSM policies.
It provides clear examples of supported policy types, such as: Move after X days, Move after X MB/GB, other time- or size-based rules.
This improves usability by helping users better understand how to correctly configure HSM policies according to their storage and lifecycle requirements.


.. rubric:: 202602-1449 Added LDAP multimaster status check documentation

The documentation page Checks and Status for the “Redundant with User Mail Replica” scenario now includes content describing how to verify LDAP multimaster and replica status.
It introduces the commands required to validate both the multimaster configuration and replication health.

*****

Bugfix List
-----------

.. rubric:: 202602-1681 Fix incorrect command prompt in MTA Message Tracking documentation

Corrected the shell prompt used in command examples on the MTA Message Tracking documentation page.

Previously, commands were displayed with an incorrect user-specific prompt ($zextras), which could lead users to mistakenly copy the prompt as part of the command, causing execution issues.

The prompt has been updated to the standard format (zextras$), ensuring that commands can be copied and executed correctly without unintended text.

*****

End of changelog